标题：美国密歇根州州长接受CGTN专访：中美贸易战对谁都没有好处
发布时间： 2018年09月21日 14:23
来源：中新网
正文：中国和美国能友好合作，这对全世界来说都是利好，能给每个人都传递出积极的信号。主持人： Where does the China-Michigan commercial relationship stand right now? Which Chinese provinces are in Michigan, which Chinese businesses, which sectors are they investing in Michigan, and which areas do you think are ripe for more growth in your state?中国各省与密歇根州之间的商业关系现在达到一个什么程度？中国企业在您的州投资的主要是哪些领域？哪些领域更有投资潜力？州长： One of the most important things in the world is what’s becoming the mobility industry. It’s really the automotive industry combining with the IT industry. Sort of merging together about autonomous and connected vehicles, it’s about electric system versus internal combustion. So that area is huge. And, we’re seeing investment from all over China in Michigan and involvement there。这个世界上最重要的事情是什么成为了移动产业。那么我认为是汽车产业与IT产业的结合。像自动驾驶与车联网诸如此类的结合，主要是关于电力系统与内燃机技术。这是一个非常广阔的领域。我们在密歇根见到来自中国各地的投资。主持人：Governor, are you concerned a little bit, that for this mission compared to your past missions given where US-China trade tensions stand right now…and of course, there might be some room for further escalation on this front as well?州长，如你所见，与你上次来华不同的是，近期中美之间的贸易紧张局势，并且还有进一步升级的空间，你是否担忧？州长：Yeah, there is a real concern. And that’s something that I hope doesn’t escalate. We’ve had great relations, we’ve seen a lot of success with China in terms of both sides winning. In terms of people having job opportunities they didn’t have before. And I think we need to encourage more trade rather than less. So I hope we work through this as effectively as possible and I hear it from Chinese companies, but I can tell you, I hear it from American companies also concerned about how do we keep this in terms of if we have issues to address, let’s get them addressed, let’s get behind this and let’s do more business together。是的，我很担忧。并且我也希望目前的紧张局势不要进一步升级。我们过去有着良好的关系，合作也取得了双赢的成果，更是创造了前所未有的工作机位。我们应该鼓励更多的贸易往来，而不是更少的。我希望这一问题能尽可能有效地解决，从很多中国企业那里我听到了这样的呼声，很多美国企业也很关心这一问题，关于如何保持合作关系，如果中美双方有问题需要解决，那么我们将它好好解决，然后进行更多的商业合作。主持人： What about investment then Governor, because it seems like Chinese investment heading into the United States right now, it’s facing more of a hostile attitude environment compared to the past few years. Where does Michigan stand on Chinese investment?那么谈及投资领域，我们观察到美国对中国投资美国的态度相对于过去几年变得更加敌对。密歇根州是如何看待中国投资？州长： We welcome it. And in fact, we’re encouraging it. We’ve continued to see a lot of Chinese businesses come into Michigan. I’m excited to see that happen. We’re having success stories all the time. GAC just announced a research and development center in Michigan. Other companies are lining up to come and I’ve got a whole list of different meetings I’m doing on my trip here to say you’re welcome, come to Michigan。我们欢迎中国投资。事实上，我们十分鼓励。我们也持续看到许多中国企业进入到密歇根州。对此我感到十分兴奋。我们一直看到许多成功的案例。广汽集团刚在密歇根州投资新建了研发机构。其他的中国企业也正排着队到来，我手中有一长串的会面计划。此行我就是来告诉你们，欢迎你们，欢迎来密歇根州。主持人：Washington right now is thinking about imposing tariffs on some 200 billion dollars worth of Chinese goods. And if that does happen, that’s really going to hurt small businesses this time around and small businesses are so crucial to the American economy. What’s your take on this issue?特朗普政府正在考虑对2000亿美元的中国商品征收关税。小型企业对美国经济至关重要，此举将更加伤害小型企业。您对这个问题有什么看法？州长：It is a concern. That’s where we need to work through these issues. Because it’s not just small business, it raises prices to our consumers. So we need to be thoughtful about that. Again, I think there is still things to improve in terms of trade relations and intellectual property…but, let’s not get in a trade war, let’s not create an adverse environment if we can help it because, again that only hurts everyone versus saying we have proactive trade…that’s the right answer because I view it as it helps the whole world when China and Michigan, or China and America can work well together it sends a good message to everyone。这是个大家都关心的问题，也是我们需要努力解决的问题。这不仅事关小企业，这会使我们的消费者面临更高的价格。我们需要考虑得更加周全。虽然我认为在贸易关系和知识产权领域，还有一些需要改进的地方。但我不希望贸易战的发生，我们不应该构建一个敌对的氛围，因为贸易战相较于积极贸易活动来说，只会伤害所有人。我认为这才是正确的答案，如果中国和密歇根州或者中国和美国能友好合作，这对全世界来说都是利好，能给每个人都传递出积极的信号。主持人： And speaking of the domestic market, China will be hosting its first International Import Expo this November. This is going to be huge, it’s a mega platform connecting Chinese buyers with sellers from all around the world. How big of an opportunity do you think this is specifically to gain more market share here in China?谈及中国国内市场，今年11月，中国将举办首届国际进口博览会。它将成为连接中国买家和世界各地产品的大型平台。美国公司应该如何利用这个平台在中国市场增加份额？州长： I think it’s a good opportunity. It’s a way to build relations. I always tell people…people always underestimate, it’s hard to do business in another country, just anywhere. I’m an old business person, I’ve actually done that. And if you can create an environment to facilitate that to make you feel welcomed, to say here’s ways you can do it faster, better, easier, that encourages more of this work to get done, which I think is again a very much positive…because I view this as about long term relationships。我认为这是一次很好的机遇。这是一个很好的构建关系的方式。我总是告诉他人，人们却总是低估这一点。在另一个国家做生意很难，无论在哪儿。我是一个传统商人，而我确实在这点上做成功了。如果你可以构建一个环境并且使得自己能够被欢迎，那么由此你可以做得更快、更好、更轻松，拓展更多的业务，这是非常积极的方式，并且我着眼于构建长期合作关系。主持人： So Governor, what is your hope then for the China-US economic relationship going forward? How do the two countries manage their differences but also grow mutually as well?您希望中美经济关系将如何发展？两国如何能最好地管理分歧并努力实现共同发展？州长： Michigan is a great illustration of that. Michigan didn’t have much of a relationship with China until I became Governor. Now after eight years, we’re actually number three in terms of the rank state for the number of jobs created by foreign direct investment from China over the last several years. That’s huge in terms of helping our economy grow. Isn’t that the kind of message we want to reinforce with people? And we build great relationships with in particular with some parts of China where we have sister state relationships that I think we have more and more opportunity。密歇根州本身可以成为一个例证。在我成为州长之前，密歇根并没有与中国有太多的往来。如今，八年以后，就来自中国的直接投资创造的就业岗位数量而言，我们是全美排名第三的州。这对于帮助我们的经济发展而言意义重大。这不正是我们想要给人们传递和强调的讯息吗？在中国，特别是一些与我们建立姐妹城市关系的地方，我们将有越来越多的合作机会。
