标题：身为坚果，生活不易
发布时间： 2018年08月18日 18:08
来源：中新网
正文：身为坚果，生活不易 | Animation: For a nut, life is hardUnfortunately, with neither trade nor aid, almond farmers in California now stand to lose the most in this escalating trade war。加州杏仁成为中美贸易战的最新受害者，过去两个月杏仁价格跌了10%，而且，特朗普总统对农业120亿美元的联邦紧急援助并未覆盖加州农产品。既没有贸易，也没有援助，加州农民在这场不断升级的中美贸易战中损失最惨重。The sun is shining and the waters are flowing… Oh, hello! Didn’t see you there. I’m just roasting in the California sun. It’s been a good year for me and my family. In fact, our harvest this year might be the best ever on record at 2.45 billion pounds. The world depends on us to satiate its appetite, since our state provides over eight out of 10 almonds in the world。阳光明媚，流水潺潺……你好！你在这儿呢。我在加州的阳光下晒太阳呢。对于我和我的家人来说，今年可是个好年景！因为今年的收成是有记录以来最好的了，有24.5亿磅呢。全世界都指望我们来满足人们对杏仁的需求，因为全球80%以上的杏仁都来自我们州。But for my growers, this abundance may not be good news. That’s because President Donald Trump has started a trade war against China. In retaliation, China has enacted a 50-percent combined tax on me, my friend pistachio, and other classic California produce。但对杏仁种植者来说，今年的大丰收可不是什么好事儿，因为特朗普总统对中国发动了贸易战。作为反击，中国对我、我的朋友开心果和加州其他经典农产品征收高达50%的总关税。That’s too bad because Chinese consumers love me. I’m high in protein, but low in fat. Their middle class is growing, and they have a growing appetite for healthy living. It’s actually the top foreign destination for me, as a third of California’s almonds go there。如果在中国出售的美国杏仁价格升高，中国消费者可能会抛弃加州，转而购买澳大利亚和非洲的杏仁。Making US almonds more expensive in China could turn consumers away from the Golden State, and look to Australia and Africa instead。6月份，我对中国的出口比5月份下降了近一半，过去两个月我的身价跌了10%。In June, my export to China dropped by almost a half from May, and my prices have dropped by 10 percent over the past two months。这还不是最糟糕的呢！比如，我的小伙伴―美国中西部的大豆，5月中旬以来，由于担心受贸易战的影响，价格下跌了近20%。Yes, things can always get worse, like for my fellow soybeans in the Midwest. Prices for soybeans took a hit of almost 20 percent since mid-May due to trade war concerns。But Trump has announced that he will provide 12 billion (US dollars) in federal aid to these farmers of crops such as soybean, sorghum, wheat and corn, grown mostly in traditionally Republican states, even though these Midwestern farmers are not happy with the relief, wanting trade instead. At least they have aid, unlike me。不过，特朗普宣布，他将向种植大豆、高粱、小麦和玉米等作物的农民提供120亿美元的联邦紧急援助，这些作物的主要产区分布在传统上支持共和党的州，尽管中西部农民对此并不满意，因为他们想要的是贸易，而不是援助。可是，至少他们还有援助，不像我，什么都没有。California’s 7,000 almond growers have actually been left out in the cold。加州的7000名杏仁种植者被冷落了。Though the traditionally blue state voted for the Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton in 2016, many of our state’s farmers supported Trump. Some of our top almond producing regions in the state are actually represented by Republicans。虽然这个传统上支持民主党的蓝州2016年投票支持了民主党候选人希拉里・克林顿，但我们州的许多农民当年选了特朗普。我们州的一些最大的杏仁产区是由共和党代表的。But unfortunately, with neither trade nor aid, our state’s farmers now stand to lose the most in this escalating trade war。但不幸的是，现在既没有贸易，也没有援助，我们州的农民在这场不断升级的中美贸易战中损失最惨重。Tell me, do you want all those fruits, nuts, and veggies to pile up and rot simply because President Trump is killing trade at the expense of the many?请告诉我，你想看到所有这些水果、坚果、蔬菜堆积如山、慢慢腐烂吗？而造成这一切的原因仅是因为特朗普总统扼杀贸易，牺牲了大多数的利益。
